---
layout: post
title: Creating the front and back-end
date: 2020-09-21
img: /assets/citizens/kirby.jpg
description: Open data
---

## What is Open Data? And what are the uses of it?

The
[European Data Portal](https://www.europeandataportal.eu/elearning/en/module1/#/id/co-01)
defines Open Data as **data that anyone can access, use and share**, and which
can be used by governments, businesses and individuals to bring social, economic
and environmental benefits. In short, it is a version of *open source* applied
to data, so that it can stay in the public domain for free use.

The uses are innumerable, but obviously it depends on the area whose data is
being used. In environmental data such as the one that most concern us in
Dataseeds, it can be used to monitor the state of forests, seas, etc. In a
political area, it can help to achieve a greater transparency towards citizens.
And in the economic area, open data can be used to analyze the performance of
companies or organizations.

It is also worth noting the importance of not only the raw data that is
published within everyone's reach, but the <span class="highlighted">added value
that lies within</span>, as from analyzing this kind of large amounts of data
from different areas usually emerges new patters and relation that results in
more information.



## How do you think open data can help farmers?

The world is currently in the fourth industrial revolution (or 4.0 industry),
where factories and lines of productions are being improved thanks to the
analysis made by networks of computers and sensors. But the agricultural seector
hasn't implemented these technologies as much as other areas, and for that to
improve **there needs to be more data**.

When applied correctly, agricultural open data contributes to the improvement of
decision processes for a greater productivity and efficiency. 

From fully robotized autonomous farms, to detecting plant diseases early or
finding the most optimal place and time for specific farms,

WORK IN PROGRESS



## What has it been like to work with the data offered by the EU?

It's been a joy to work with such a well organized page, where all the data was
fully labeled, filled with more useful information, related links... and most
importantly: <span class="highlighted">easy to get the data you wanted in the
format you desired</span>. In the world of data science, collecting and
processing the data is usually one of the most tedious tasks, but in this case,
it never took me more than an hour from zero to having a first stable iteration
of a visualization for Dataseeds.

It was also a really nice addition being able to embed the CORDIS map by just
copying a few lines of code, whose complexity made it imposible to create it
from the raw dayasets like I did with the rest of the visualizations.

<!-- 
########################################
NEGRITA     CURSIVA

**texto**   *texto*

########################################
RESALTADO

<span class="highlighted">texto</span>

########################################
IMAGENES: 

<p class="post-image">

    <img src="https://i.ytimg.com/vi/gUIJ-UkQsXI/maxresdefault.jpg" style="max-width: 400px; width: 90%">
    <p class="post-image-label">Figure 1: A cute kitty</p>

</p>

########################################
LINKS

[texto](https://dataseeds.github.io)

-->